labs/lab-02/tasks/pixels/README.md, before:

---
parent: Lab 2 - Memory Operations. Introduction to GDB
nav_order: 3
---

# Task: Pixels

You will solve this exercise starting from the `pixels.c` file located in the `tasks/pixels/support` directory.

Consider the structure of a pixel and an image described in the `pixel.h` file:

```c
typedef struct Pixel {
    unsigned char R;
    unsigned char G;
    unsigned char B;
} Pixel;

typedef struct Picture {
    int height;
    int width;
    Pixel **pix_array;
} Picture;
```

Implement the following:

- The `reverse_pic(struct picture *pic)` function, which takes a Picture as a parameter and returns the reversed image.
By a reversed image, we mean the inversion of the rows of the `pix_array` matrix in the Picture structure.
- The `color_to_gray(struct picture *pic)` function, which takes a Picture as a parameter and returns the new image by converting each pixel to its grayscale value.
The grayscale value of a pixel is calculated using the following formula:

```c
p.r = 0.3 * p.r;
p.g = 0.59 * p.g;
p.b = 0.11 * p.b;
```

> **IMPORTANT:**
> Accessing the elements of the pixel matrix will be done using pointer operations.
> **Hint:** For simplicity, you can use the following macro:
>
> ```c
> #define GET_PIXEL(a, i ,j) (*(*((a) + (i)) + (j)))
> ```

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this](../../reading/memory-operations.md) reading material.

Commit message:

labs/lab-02: Add checker infrastructure
Added:
- 3 tests for delete_first,
- delete_first.h for the function's signature,
- main.c to break dependencies between the function and the code
  that executes it.

- Added array.h and array.c in order to have the same array in memory
to generate the reference files in the testing procedure.
- Added "// SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause" comment to files

- Added 2 tests for pixels.
- Broke dependencies between pixel files to ease the testing
- Converted remaining spaces to tabs

- Added 10 tests for pointers, each 10 pts
- Added more information about the content for how the testing should
look in README.md.

Signed-off-by: Andrei Rusanescu <andreirusanescu154@gmail.com>

labs/lab-02/tasks/pixels/README.md, after:

---
parent: Lab 2 - Memory Operations. Introduction to GDB
nav_order: 3
---

# Task: Pixels

You will solve this exercise starting from the `pixels.c` file located in the `tasks/pixels/support` directory.

Consider the structure of a pixel and an image described in the `pixel.h` file:

```c
typedef struct Pixel {
    unsigned char R;
    unsigned char G;
    unsigned char B;
} Pixel;

typedef struct Picture {
    int height;
    int width;
    Pixel **pix_array;
} Picture;
```

Implement the following:

- The `reverse_pic(struct picture *pic)` function, which takes a Picture as a parameter and returns the reversed image.
By a reversed image, we mean the inversion of the rows of the `pix_array` matrix in the Picture structure.
- The `color_to_gray(struct picture *pic)` function, which takes a Picture as a parameter and returns the new image by converting each pixel to its grayscale value.
The grayscale value of a pixel is calculated using the following formula:

```c
p.r = 0.3 * p.r;
p.g = 0.59 * p.g;
p.b = 0.11 * p.b;
```

> **IMPORTANT:**
> Accessing the elements of the pixel matrix will be done using pointer operations.
> **Hint:** For simplicity, you can use the following macro:
>
> ```c
> #define GET_PIXEL(a, i ,j) (*(*((a) + (i)) + (j)))
> ```

To test the implementation, enter the `tests/` directory and run:

```console
make check
```

In case of a correct solution, you will get an output such as:

```text
test_reverse                     ........................ passed ...  50
test_color_to_gray               ........................ passed ...  50

Total:                                                           100/100
```

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this](../../reading/memory-operations.md) reading material.
