labs/lab-10/tasks/overflow-for-binary/README.md, before:

---
nav_order: 7
parent: Lab 10 - Buffer Management. Buffer Overflow
---

# Task: Buffer Overflow for Binary

Often, we don't have access to source code and want to discover vulnerabilities in executable files.
In the `tasks/overflow-for-binary/support/` directory of the laboratory resource archive, you will find an executable file.
Using `ghidra` or `gdb` for investigation, discover how to exploit the buffer overflow vulnerability to make the program display the message **Great success**.

> **IMPORTANT** To run `ghidra` on the `overflow_in_binary` executable file, you need to create a new project and import the executable file.
> Ghidra will automatically detect the file format.
> Run the analysis of the executable, then search in the Symbol Tree for the `main` function.
> **HINT** Identify in the disassembled code how input is passed to the program.
> Identify where the buffer overflow occurs.
> Identify the comparison condition you want to trigger.
> Then build the corresponding payload and deliver it in the appropriate format to the program.

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this](../../reading/overflow-vuln.md) reading material.

> **WARNING** If you try using a payload generated with python and it doesn't work, try simply copying its content in the terminal

## Resources

If you found the laboratory interesting in a positive way, you can learn more about this type of attack, as well as cybersecurity in general, on this [channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/LiveOverflow).

Commit message:

labs/lab-10: Add checker infrastructure
- Add for each task a directory named `tests/`.
- Add for each task a specified checker in directory tests.
- Add for each task an `exploit.py` file with some `TODO`s.
- Add instructions in the READMEs about completing `exploit.py` TODOs and
running `make check` in `tests/` for displaying the results.
- Add some detailed explanations in the README files.
- Delete the `exploit.py` files from the `stack-buffer` directory.
- Add more detailed tests for the `stack_buffer` exercise.

Fixes #43

Signed-off-by: Alexandru Braslasu <alex.braslasu24@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Teodor Dutu <teodor.dutu@gmail.com>

labs/lab-10/tasks/overflow-for-binary/README.md, after:

---
nav_order: 7
parent: Lab 10 - Buffer Management. Buffer Overflow
---

# Task: Buffer Overflow for Binary

Often, we don't have access to source code and want to discover vulnerabilities in executable files.
In the `tasks/overflow-for-binary/support/` directory of the laboratory resource archive, you will find an executable file.
Using `ghidra` or `gdb` for investigation, discover how to exploit the buffer overflow vulnerability to make the program display the message **Great success**.

> **IMPORTANT** To run `ghidra` on the `overflow_in_binary` executable file, you need to create a new project and import the executable file.
> Ghidra will automatically detect the file format.
> Run the analysis of the executable, then search in the Symbol Tree for the `main` function.
> **HINT** Identify in the disassembled code how input is passed to the program.
> Identify where the buffer overflow occurs.
> Identify the comparison condition you want to trigger.
> Then build the corresponding payload and deliver it in the appropriate format to the program.

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this](../../reading/overflow-vuln.md) reading material.

> **WARNING** If you try using a payload generated with python and it doesn't work, try simply copying its content in the terminal

## Checking Your Solution

In order to verify your exploit, please complete the `exploit.py` TODOs.
Run it with `python3 exploit.py`.

Afterwards, navigate to the `tests` directory and run:

```Bash
make check
test........................................passed
Total:                                      100/100
```

If your solution is correct, you will receive a `100/100` result.

## Resources

If you found the laboratory interesting in a positive way, you can learn more about this type of attack, as well as cybersecurity in general, on this [channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/LiveOverflow).
