labs/lab-10/tasks/read-stdin-fgets/README.md, before:

---
nav_order: 4
parent: Lab 10 - Buffer Management. Buffer Overflow
---

# Task: Buffer Overflow with Data from Standard Input and `fgets()`

As mentioned in the [**Read Using gets** task](../../tasks/read-stdin-gets/README.md), the `gets()` function is prohibited in current programs.
Instead, the `fgets()` function can be used.
Open the source code file `read_stdin_fgets.asm` from the `tasks/read-stdin-fgets/support/`.
In the `read_stdin_fgets.asm` source file, follow **TODO 1** and change the `gets()` function call to the `fgets()` function call.

For the `fgets()` call, read from standard input.
As an argument for the third parameter of `fgets()` (of type `FILE *`) you will use standard input.
To specify standard input, use the `stdin` stream.
You will need to mark it as external using, at the beginning of the assembly language file, the construction:

> ```Assembly
> extern stdin
> ```

`stdin` is an address; to call `fgets()` with standard input,
it is sufficient to pass on the stack the value from the `stdin` address, i.e., using the construction:

```Assembly
push dword [stdin]
```

> **HINT** Follow the manual page of the [`fgets()`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/fgets.3.html) function to find out what parameters it receives.
> **TIP** Since the `fgets()` function has 3 parameters (which occupy `3 × 4 = 12` bytes) you will need to use `add esp, 12` after the function call,
> in restoring the stack, instead of `add esp, 4` as in the case of the program above that used `gets()`.
> **IMPORTANT** Do not modify the assembly language code. Transmit the input string in the appropriate format to the standard input
> to generate a buffer overflow and to obtain the required result.

Follow **TODO 2** in code and call *fgets()* instead of gets, but keep in mind that you will have to push a value big enough for the buffer size in order to produce an overflow.
The result should be the same like in the *read_stdin_gets* task.

> **TIP** As above, to transmit the input string for the program, it is recommended to write it in a file
> and then redirect that file to the corresponding program command.
> Redirecting the `payload` file to the program is done using a command like:

```Bash
./read_stdin_fgets < payload
```

What happens if you push *buffer_length - 1*, instead of *buffer_length*.
Why *var is 0x004F4C46* now?

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this](../../reading/buffers-intro.md) reading material.

Commit message:

labs/lab-10: Add checker infrastructure
- Add for each task a directory named `tests/`.
- Add for each task a specified checker in directory tests.
- Add for each task an `exploit.py` file with some `TODO`s.
- Add instructions in the READMEs about completing `exploit.py` TODOs and
running `make check` in `tests/` for displaying the results.
- Add some detailed explanations in the README files.
- Delete the `exploit.py` files from the `stack-buffer` directory.
- Add more detailed tests for the `stack_buffer` exercise.

Fixes #43

Signed-off-by: Alexandru Braslasu <alex.braslasu24@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Teodor Dutu <teodor.dutu@gmail.com>

labs/lab-10/tasks/read-stdin-fgets/README.md, after:

---
nav_order: 4
parent: Lab 10 - Buffer Management. Buffer Overflow
---

# Task: Buffer Overflow with Data from Standard Input and `fgets()`

As mentioned in the [**Read Using gets** task](../../tasks/read-stdin-gets/README.md), the `gets()` function is prohibited in current programs.
Instead, the `fgets()` function can be used.
Open the source code file `read_stdin_fgets.asm` from the `tasks/read-stdin-fgets/support/`.
In the `read_stdin_fgets.asm` source file, follow **TODO 1** and change the `gets()` function call to the `fgets()` function call.

For the `fgets()` call, read from standard input.
As an argument for the third parameter of `fgets()` (of type `FILE *`) you will use standard input.
To specify standard input, use the `stdin` stream.
You will need to mark it as external using, at the beginning of the assembly language file, the construction:

> ```Assembly
> extern stdin
> ```

`stdin` is an address; to call `fgets()` with standard input,
it is sufficient to pass on the stack the value from the `stdin` address, i.e., using the construction:

```Assembly
push dword [stdin]
```

> **HINT** Follow the manual page of the [`fgets()`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/fgets.3.html) function to find out what parameters it receives.
> **TIP** Since the `fgets()` function has 3 parameters (which occupy `3 × 4 = 12` bytes) you will need to use `add esp, 12` after the function call,
> in restoring the stack, instead of `add esp, 4` as in the case of the program above that used `gets()`.
> **IMPORTANT** Do not modify the assembly language code. Transmit the input string in the appropriate format to the standard input
> to generate a buffer overflow and to obtain the required result.

Follow **TODO 2** in code and call *fgets()* instead of gets, but keep in mind that you will have to push a value big enough for the buffer size in order to produce an overflow.
The result should be the same like in the *read_stdin_gets* task.

> **TIP** As above, to transmit the input string for the program, it is recommended to write it in a file
> and then redirect that file to the corresponding program command.
> Redirecting the `payload` file to the program is done using a command like:

```Bash
./read_stdin_fgets < payload
```

What happens if you push *buffer_length - 1*, instead of *buffer_length*.
Why *var is 0x004F4C46* now?

## Checking Your Solution

In order to verify your exploit, please complete the `exploit.py` TODOs.
Run it using `python3 exploit.py`.

Afterwards, navigate to the `tests` directory and run:

```Bash
make check
test........................................passed
Total:                                      100/100
```

If your solution is correct, you will receive a `100/100` result.

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this](../../reading/buffers-intro.md) reading material.
