labs/lab-06/tasks/print-structure/README.md, before:

---
nav_order: 2
parent: Lab 6 - Structures, Vectors and Strings
---

# Task: Modifying a Structure

Write code within the `main` function to modify the fields of the `sample_student` structure so that:

- the birth year is `1993`

- the age is `22`

- the group is `323CA`

>**WARNING**: Do not modify what is displayed, modify the structure code.
Do not touch the display code, that code must remain the same.
You need to add at the beginning of the `main` function, in the place marked with `TODO`, the code to modify the structure.
>**WARNING**: You need to modify the content of the structure in the code, meaning you need to write to the memory area corresponding to the field in the structure.
Do not modify the structure in the `.data` section, you need to use code to modify the structure.
>**TIP**: For modifying the group, you will need to change the third byte/character of the `group` field (i.e., the byte/character with index 2).

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this](../../reading/structures.md) reading material.

Commit message:

labs/lab-06: Added checker infrastructure - Added checkers for each task. - Added comments in source code to warn against modifying the format of variable declarations, in order for the checkers to recognize and modify them. - Added instructions for running the checkers in each task's README.md. - Corrected the solution for mul-arrays.
Fixes #39

Signed-off-by: Cristian-Stefan Lazar <cristian.lazar1512@gmail.com>

labs/lab-06/tasks/print-structure/README.md, after:

---
nav_order: 2
parent: Lab 6 - Structures, Vectors and Strings
---

# Task: Modifying a Structure

Write code within the `main` function to modify the fields of the `sample_student` structure so that:

- the birth year is `1993`

- the age is `22`

- the group is `323CA`

>**WARNING**: Do not modify what is displayed, modify the structure code.
Do not touch the display code, that code must remain the same.
You need to add at the beginning of the `main` function, in the place marked with `TODO`, the code to modify the structure.
>**WARNING**: You need to modify the content of the structure in the code, meaning you need to write to the memory area corresponding to the field in the structure.
Do not modify the structure in the `.data` section, you need to use code to modify the structure.
>**TIP**: For modifying the group, you will need to change the third byte/character of the `group` field (i.e., the byte/character with index 2).

To test the implementation, enter the `tests/` directory and run:

```console
make check
```

In case of a correct solution, you will get an output such as:

```text
./run_all_tests

test_print_structure             ........................ passed ... 100

========================================================================

Total:                                                           100/100
```

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this](../../reading/structures.md) reading material.
