labs/lab-09/tasks/max-assembly-calls/README.md, before:

---
nav_order: 3
parent: Lab 9 - The C - Assembly Interaction
---

# Task: Maximum Calculation in C with Call from Assembly

Navigate to `tasks/max-assembly-calls/support/` and open `main.asm`

In this directory you can find an implementation of calculating the maximum of a number where the `main()` function is defined in assembly language from which the `get_max()` function defined in C is called.

Trace the code in the two files and how the function arguments and return value are passed.

Compile and run the program.

> **IMPORTANT:**
> Pay attention to understanding the code before proceeding to the next exercise.

## Extending Maximum Computation in C with Call from Assembly

Extend the program from the previous exercise (in assembly language and C) so that the `get_max()` function now has the signature `unsigned int get_max(unsigned int *arr, unsigned int len, unsigned int *pos)`.
The third argument to the function is the address where the position in the vector on which the maximum is found will be held.

The position in the vector on which the maximum is found will also be displayed on display.

> **TIP:**
> To hold the position, it is best to define a global variable in the assembly file (`main.asm`) in the `.data` section, of the form
>
> ```Assembly
> pos: dd 0
> ```
>
> This variable you will pass (by address) to the `get_max()` call and by value to the `printf()` call for display.
>
> For display modify the `print_format` string and the `printf()` call in the assembly file (`main.asm`) to allow two values to be displayed: maximum and position.
>

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this relevant section](../../reading/stack-c-asm.md) reading material.

Commit message:

labs/lab-09: Fix inconsistencies
- Add missing `README.md` guidelines about running the checkers.
- Fix stack clearing.
- Add instructions about the output format to the max calculation tasks.
- Remove spurious words from the SPDX-License Identifiers.

Signed-off-by: Teodor Dutu <teodor.dutu@gmail.com>

labs/lab-09/tasks/max-assembly-calls/README.md, after:

---
nav_order: 3
parent: Lab 9 - The C - Assembly Interaction
---

# Task: Maximum Calculation in C with Call from Assembly

Navigate to `tasks/max-assembly-calls/support/` and open `main.asm`

In this directory you can find an implementation of calculating the maximum of a number where the `main()` function is defined in assembly language from which the `get_max()` function defined in C is called.

Trace the code in the two files and how the function arguments and return value are passed.

Compile and run the program.

> **IMPORTANT:**
> Pay attention to understanding the code before proceeding to the next exercise.

## Extending Maximum Computation in C with Call from Assembly

Extend the program from the previous exercise (in assembly language and C) so that the `get_max()` function now has the signature `unsigned int get_max(unsigned int *arr, unsigned int len, unsigned int *pos)`.
The third argument to the function is the address where the position in the vector on which the maximum is found will be held.

The position in the vector on which the maximum is found will also be displayed on display.

> **TIP:**
> To hold the position, it is best to define a global variable in the assembly file (`main.asm`) in the `.data` section, of the form
>
> ```Assembly
> pos: dd 0
> ```
>
> This variable you will pass (by address) to the `get_max()` call and by value to the `printf()` call for display.
>
> For display modify the `print_format` string and the `printf()` call in the assembly file (`main.asm`) to allow two values to be displayed: maximum and position.
>

After finishing the exercise and testing it manually, run the checker script to validate the result:

```console
make check
```

The format of your output should be `"max: <max value> on position: <position>\n"`
In case of a correct solution, you will get an output such as:

```text
test_max_asm_calls            ........................ passed ...  100

Total:                                                           100/100
```

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this relevant section](../../reading/stack-c-asm.md) reading material.
