labs/lab-05/tasks/sum-squared/README.md, before:

---
nav_order: 3
parent: Lab 5 - Registers and Memory Addressing
---

# Task: Sum of First N Natural Numbers Squared

You will solve this exercise starting from the `sum_n.asm` file located in the `tasks/sum-squared/support` directory.

In the `sum_n.asm` program, the sum of the first `num` natural numbers is calculated.

Follow the code, observe the constructions and registers specific to working with bytes.
Run the code.

> **IMPORTANT**: Proceed to the next step only after you have understood very well what the code does.
It will be difficult for you to do the next exercise if you have difficulties understanding the current one.

Start with the program `sum_n.asm` and create a program `sum_n_square.asm` that calculates the sum of squares of the first `num` natural numbers (`num` <= 100).

> **TIP**: You will use the `eax` and `edx` registers for multiplication to compute the squares (using the `mul` instruction).
Therefore, you cannot easily use the `eax` register to store the sum of squares. To retain the sum of squares, you have two options:
>
> 1. (easier) Use the `ebx` register to store the sum of squares.
> 1. (more complex) Before performing operations on the `eax` register, save its value on the stack (using the `push` instruction), then perform the necessary operations, and finally restore the saved value (using the `pop` instruction).
>
> **NOTE**: For verification, the sum of squares of the first 100 natural numbers is `338350`.

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this](../../reading/registers.md) reading material.

Commit message:

labs/lab-05: Add checker infrastructure
1. Added 3 simple tests that check for the right quotient
and remainder.

2. Added 3 simple tests that check for the right product of
the multiplication of the given numbers.

3. Added 4 tests for the word and dword vectors, for the sum of
squares and for the 64 bits sum of squares. Furthermore, I added
the task in the `README.md` file for the latter. In addition,
with a view to make the testing easier, all the tasks should
be implemented in the file `sum_array`, as the implementation of
the tasks in separate files was not clearly mentioned.

4. Added 2 tests for both of the sums. The existence of the
second binary is checked before executing it, as the creation
of that file is stated in the README.md.

5. Added 4 tests for positive, negative, even and odd numbers.
To make the testing simpler, the array that should be declared
is written in the README.md file.

Fixes #38

Signed-off-by: Andrei Rusanescu <andreirusanescu154@gmail.com>

labs/lab-05/tasks/sum-squared/README.md, after:

---
nav_order: 3
parent: Lab 5 - Registers and Memory Addressing
---

# Task: Sum of First N Natural Numbers Squared

You will solve this exercise starting from the `sum_n.asm` file located in the `tasks/sum-squared/support` directory.

In the `sum_n.asm` program, the sum of the first `num` natural numbers is calculated.

Follow the code, observe the constructions and registers specific to working with bytes.
Run the code.

> **IMPORTANT**: Proceed to the next step only after you have understood very well what the code does.
It will be difficult for you to do the next exercise if you have difficulties understanding the current one.

Start with the program `sum_n.asm` and create a program `sum_n_squared.asm` that calculates the sum of squares of the first `num` natural numbers (`num` <= 100).

> **TIP**: You will use the `eax` and `edx` registers for multiplication to compute the squares (using the `mul` instruction).
Therefore, you cannot easily use the `eax` register to store the sum of squares. To retain the sum of squares, you have two options:
>
> 1. (easier) Use the `ebx` register to store the sum of squares.
> 1. (more complex) Before performing operations on the `eax` register, save its value on the stack (using the `push` instruction), then perform the necessary operations, and finally restore the saved value (using the `pop` instruction).
>
> **NOTE**: For verification, the sum of squares of the first 100 natural numbers is `338350`.

## Testing

To test the implementation, enter the `tests/` directory and run:

```console
make check
```

In case of a correct solution, you will get an output such as:

```text
test_sum_100                     ........................ passed ...  50
test_sum_squares_100             ........................ passed ...  50

========================================================================

Total:                                                           100/100
```

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this](../../reading/registers.md) reading material.
