labs/lab-07/tasks/stack-addressing/README.md, before:

---
nav_order: 3
parent: Lab 7 - The Stack
---

# Task: Stack Addressing

The `stack-addressing.asm` program in the lab's archive allocates and initializes two local variables on the stack:

- an array of natural numbers from 1 to `NUM`
- a string "Bob has corn".

1. Replace each `push` instruction with an equivalent sequence of instructions.
1. Print the addresses and values on the stack in the interval `[esp, ebp]` (from low addresses to high addresses) byte by byte.
1. Print the string allocated on the stack byte by byte and explain how it looks in memory.
Think about where you should start displaying and when you should stop.
1. Print the vector allocated on the stack element by element.
Think about where you should start displaying and what size each element has.

> **NOTE:** You should only push 10 elements on the stack.
After a successful implementation, the program should display something similar to the following output (it won't be exactly the same, stack memory addresses may differ):
>
>```c
>0xffcf071b: 65
>0xffcf071c: 110
>0xffcf071d: 97
>0xffcf071e: 32
>0xffcf071f: 97
>0xffcf0734: 4
>0xffcf0735: 0
>0xffcf0736: 0
>0xffcf0737: 0
>0xffcf0738: 5
>Bob has corn
>1 2 3 4 5
>```
>
> Explain the significance of each byte.
> Why are they arranged in that particular order?
> Why are some bytes 0?
>
> **TIP:** Remember that ASCII character codes are represented as decimal values.
Remember the order in which the bytes of a larger number are stored: review the section **Order of representation of numbers larger than one byte** from Lab 01.

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this](../../reading/stack.md) reading material

## Checker

To run the checker, go into the `tests` directory located in `src`, then type `make check`.
A successful output of the checker should look like this :

```console
student@os:~/.../lab-07/tasks/reverse-array/tests$ make && make check
test_stack_addresing           .......................... passed ... 100

========================================================================

Total:                                                           100/100
```

Commit message:

labs/lab-07: Fix README.md and comment for tasks `stack-addressing`, `gcd` (#91)
# Prerequisite Checklist

<!--
Please mark items appropriately:
-->

- [x] Read the [contribution
guidelines](https://github.com/open-education-hub/ccas-internal/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#pull-requests)
regarding submitting new changes to the project;
- [x] Tested your changes against relevant architectures and platforms;
- [x] Updated relevant documentation (if needed).

## Description of changes

<!--
Please provide a detailed description of the changes made in this new
PR.
-->
- Surround `push` in TODO 1 comment with quotes in `stack-addressing`
such that the checker does not flag it as a false positive use of the
`push` instruction in the student's solution
- Fix description and example output in README.md file of the task
`stack-addressing` to reflect the behavior expected by the checker
(print values in address range from high to low, dword by dword) and
remove a few lines related to old example output
- Modify example output in README.md file of the task `gcd` to reflect
the output expected by the checker/solution (a space after the comma)

Signed-off-by: CHIRIAC Cristian-Alexandru <cristian.chiriac02@stud.acs.upb.ro>

labs/lab-07/tasks/stack-addressing/README.md, after:

---
nav_order: 3
parent: Lab 7 - The Stack
---

# Task: Stack Addressing

The `stack-addressing.asm` program in the lab's archive allocates and initializes two local variables on the stack:

- an array of natural numbers from 1 to `NUM`
- a string "Bob has corn".

1. Replace each `push` instruction with an equivalent sequence of instructions.
1. Print the addresses and values on the stack in the interval `[esp, ebp]` (from high addresses to low addresses) dword by dword.
1. Print the string allocated on the stack byte by byte and explain how it looks in memory.
Think about where you should start displaying and when you should stop.
1. Print the vector allocated on the stack element by element.
Think about where you should start displaying and what size each element has.

After a successful implementation, the program should display something similar to the following output (it won't be exactly the same, stack memory addresses may differ):
>
>```c
>Bob has corn
>0xffe804cc: 0xf7d91519
>0xffe804c8: 0x5
>0xffe804c4: 0x4
>0xffe804c0: 0x3
>0xffe804bc: 0x2
>0xffe804b8: 0x1
>0xffe804b4: 0x0
>0xffe804b0: 0x6e726f63
>0xffe804ac: 0x20736168
>0xffe804a8: 0x20626f42
>Bob has corn
>1 2 3 4 5
>```
>
> Explain the significance of each byte.
> Why are they arranged in that particular order?
>
> **TIP:** Remember that ASCII character codes are represented as decimal values.
Remember the order in which the bytes of a larger number are stored: review the section **Order of representation of numbers larger than one byte** from Lab 01.

If you're having difficulties solving this exercise, go through [this](../../reading/stack.md) reading material

## Checker

To run the checker, go into the `tests` directory located in `src`, then type `make check`.
A successful output of the checker should look like this :

```console
student@os:~/.../lab-07/tasks/reverse-array/tests$ make && make check
test_stack_addresing           .......................... passed ... 100

========================================================================

Total:                                                           100/100
```
